welcome to movie summary today i'm going
to explain epic historical war film troy
a battle between the greek armies of
king agamemnon of mycenaean king triupus
of thessaly is quickly averted when the
great warrior achilles
fighting for agamemnon easily defeats
triumphus champion in single combat
after achilles was initially absent from
the battle
thessaly joins agamemnon's loose
alliance comprising all of the greek
kingdoms
prince hector of troy and his younger
brother paris negotiate peace with
menelaus
king of sparta however paris is having
an affair with menelaus wife
queen helen and smuggles her aboard
their homebound vessel
much to hector's dismay upon learning of
this
menelaus meets with agamemnon his elder
brother and asks him to help destroy
troy and retrieve his wife
agamemnon agrees as conquering troy will
give him control of the aegean sea
agamemnon has odysseus king of ithaca
persuade achilles to join them
achilles who strongly dislikes agamemnon
eventually decides to go after his
mother thetas tells him that even though
he will die
he will be forever glorified in troy
king priam is dismayed when hector and
paris introduce helen
but welcomes her and decides to prepare
for war the greeks eventually invade and
take the trojan beach
thanks largely to achilles and his
mermaids achilles has the temple of
apollo sacked and has a brief
confrontation with hector
he claims british ace a priestess and
the cousin of paris and hector
as a prisoner afterward however
agamemnon spitefully takes pre-shaves
from achilles and achilles decides he
will not further aid agamemnon in the
siege
the next day the trojan and greek armies
meet outside the walls of troy
during a parley paris offers to duo
menelaus personally for helen's hand in
exchange for the city being spared
agamemnon intending to take the city
regardless of the outcome
accepts menelaus wounds paris causing
him to cower at the foot of hector
when menelaus attempts to kill paris
despite his victory
he is killed by hector agamemnon then
leads an attack on the trojan army which
is outnumbered two to one
hector kills ajax after a brief but
fierce duel and many greek soldiers fall
to the trojan archers and infantrymen
with achilles and the myrmidons watching
the battle from a distance
on odysseus insistence agamemnon gives
the order to fall back
after ajax and menelaus are cremated in
the greek camp
agamemnon and odysseus argue about why
they lost the battle
agamemnon gives brishace to the greek
soldiers for their amusement
but achilles saves her from them later
that night brishay sneaks into achilles
quarters to kill him
instead she falls for him and they
become lovers
achilles then resolves to leave troy
much to the dismayed patroclus
his cousin and protege despite hector's
objections
priyam orders him to retake the trojan
beach by daybreak and force the greeks
to return home
the attack unifies the greeks and the
myrmidons enter the battle
hector duels a man that he believes to
be achilles and kills him
only to discover that it was actually
patroclus distraught
both armies agree to stop fighting for
the day achilles is informed of his
cousin's death by eudorris and vows
revenge after striking him
the next day achilles arrives outside
troy and challenges hector
knowing death would await him the two
duel outside the gates and initially
appear evenly matched
but hector is slowly worn down until
achilles throws a spearhead into
hector's shoulder
before stabbing him in the heart with
his sword achilles then drags his corpse
back to the trojan beach
priam in disguise sneaks into the camp
and implores achilles to return hector's
body for a proper funeral
ashamed of his actions achilles agrees
and also states that hector was the best
that he had ever fought
he allows british ace to return to troy
with preem promising a 12-day truce so
that hector's funeral rights may be held
in peace
he then apologizes to you doris for
hurting him and orders him to take their
men back home without him
agamemnon declares that he will take
troy regardless of the cost
concerned odysseus concocts a plan to
infiltrate the city
after seeing a carving of a horse by a
greek soldier he as the greeks build a
gigantic wooden horses a piece offering
an abandoned the trojan beach
hiding their ships in a nearby cove
despite objections from paris
who requests for it to be burned down
prim orders the horse to be brought into
the city after archetalis views it as a
gift intended
for calming the gods a trojan scout
later finds the greek ships hiding in
the cove
but he is quickly shot before he could
alert the city
that night the greeks hiding inside the
horse emerge including achilles
attacking the sleeping trojans and open
the city gates for the greek army
commencing the sack of troy while
andromache and helen guide the trojans
to safety through the tunnel
the defenders outside the palace put up
a heroic resistance
but they are no match for the numbers of
the greeks when the palace gates are
breached
the few trojan soldiers left kill many
greeks but are ultimately overwhelmed
and slain while paris escapes
agamemnon finds and kills priyan by
impaling him with a spear he later tries
to capture british ace
who then kills agamemnon by stabbing him
in the neck with a concealed knife
achilles fights his way through the city
and reunites with brishace after
rescuing her from agamemnon's two greek
soldiers
paris seeking to avenge his brother
shoots an arrow through achilles heel
and then several into his body achilles
takes out all the arrows but the one in
his heel
he then bids farewell to british ace and
watches her flee with paris before dying
in the aftermath troy is finally taken
by the greeks and a funeral is held for
achilles
odysseus personally cremates his body
while the surviving trojans flee to
mount idaho
movie ends in that scene please like
share and subscribe subscribe to watch
more videos like this
turn on notifications and leave a like
it really helps the channel
thank you for watching